wasm-decompile blog post (#387)
v8/v8.dev: src/blog/wasm-decompile.md

Problem is, Wasm is rather low level, much like actual assembly code. In particular, unlike say, the JVM, all data structures have been compiled down to load/store operations, rather than conveniently named classes and fields. Compilers like LLVM can do an impressive amount of transformations that make the generated code look nothing like the code that went in.

## Disassemble or.. decompile?

You could use tools like `wasm2wat` (part of the [WABT](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt) toolkit), to transform a `.wasm` into Wasm's standard text format, `.wat`, which is a very faithful but not particularly readable representation.

For example, a simple C function like a dot product:

```c
typedef struct { float x, y, z; } vec3;

float dot(const vec3 *a, const vec3 *b) {
    return a->x * b->x +
           a->y * b->y +
           a->z * b->z;
}
```

We use `clang dot.c -c -target wasm32 -O2` followed by `wasm2wat -f dot.o` to turn it into this `.wat`:

> ```lisp

Reviewer: We have a dedicated `wasm` highlighter:

```suggestion
```wasm
```

---

> title: "What's in that .wasm? Introducing: wasm-decompile"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'What’s in that `.wasm`? Introducing: `wasm-decompile`'
```

> author: 'Wouter van Oortmerssen'

Author: Ok, will do!

avatars:
  - 'wouter-van-oortmerssen'
date: 2020-04-20 12:35:00
tags:
  - WebAssembly
  - tooling
description: 'WABT gains a new decompilation tool that can make it easier to

> read the contents of Wasm modules'

Reviewer 2: nit: this should read like a sentence, including a dot at the end.

---

> We have a growing number of compilers and other tools that generate or

Reviewer 2: Throughout the file: don't use hard line breaks unless you semantically want to insert a hard break.

Author: See discussion above.. this is not how anyone else uses markdown. But whatever.

manipulate `.wasm` files, and sometimes you might want to have a look inside.

> Maybe you're a developer of such a tool, or more directly, you're simply a

Reviewer 2: drop "simply"

programmer targeting Wasm, and wondering what the generated code looks like,
for performance or other reasons.

Problem is, Wasm is rather low level, much like actual assembly code. In particular,
unlike say, the JVM, all data structures have been compiled down to load/store
operations, rather than conveniently named classes and fields. Compilers like
LLVM can do an impressive amount of transformations that make the generated code
look nothing like the code that went in.

## Disassemble or.. decompile?

You could use tools like `wasm2wat` (part of the
[WABT](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt) toolkit), to transform a `.wasm`
into Wasm's standard text format, `.wat`, which is a very faithful but not
particularly readable representation.

For example, a simple C function like a dot product:

> ```C

Reviewer: Looks like CI failed because of this: https://travis-ci.com/github/v8/v8.dev/jobs/321362009#L341

I think you need to use lowercase tag (`c`) or maybe even `cpp` in case that one doesn't work.

---
title: "What's in that .wasm? Introducing: wasm-decompile"
author: 'Wouter van Oortmerssen'
avatars:
  - 'wouter-van-oortmerssen'
date: 2020-04-20 12:35:00
tags:
  - WebAssembly
  - tooling
description: 'WABT gains a new decompilation tool that can make it easier to
read the contents of Wasm modules'

> tweet: '?'

Reviewer: Please leave empty for now, otherwise this will generate an invalid URL.

operations, rather than conveniently named classes and fields. Compilers like
LLVM can do an impressive amount of transformations that make the generated code
look nothing like the code that went in.

Disassemble or.. decompile?
---------------------------

You could use tools like `wasm2wat` (part of the
[WABT](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt) toolkit), to transform a `.wasm`
into Wasm's standard text format, `.wat`, which is a very faithful but not
particularly readable representation.

For example, a simple C function like a dot product:

```C
typedef struct { float x, y, z; } vec3;

float dot(const vec3 *a, const vec3 *b) {
    return a->x * b->x +
           a->y * b->y +
           a->z * b->z;
}
```

We use `clang dot.c -c -target wasm32 -O2` followed by `wasm2wat dot.o` to
turn it into this `.wat`:

```lisp
(func $dot (type 0) (param i32 i32) (result f32)
  local.get 0
  f32.load
  local.get 1
  f32.load
  f32.mul
  local.get 0
  f32.load offset=4
  local.get 1
  f32.load offset=4
  f32.mul
  f32.add
  local.get 0
  f32.load offset=8
  local.get 1
  f32.load offset=8
  f32.mul
  f32.add))
```

That is a tiny bit of code, but already not great to read for many reasons.

> Besides the lack of an expression based syntax and general verbosity,

Reviewer: To be completely fair, it might be helpful to compare with a folded WAT (`wasm2wat -f`) which makes it somewhat more readable.

Author: good point, will fix.
